This is an interview with Sergeant First Class Lee
Westbrook by Norah J. Garza on the 5th of December,
1988, at his home and college station concerning
the Vietnam War. Right.
In the interest of accumulating knowledge about
the war, I'm going to donate this tape to Texas A&M
Oral History Collection in the University
Archives. That'll go with you. That's fine. Okay.
Let's start the questions with basic, your date
and place of birth. I was born on March 11, 1941, in
Southern Springs, Texas. My father was a
seismographer with Magnolia Oil Company. He
moved around a lot. We settled not too long after
that in his former home of Gainesville, Texas,
which is where I more or less grew up off and on. over
the next 17 years. I've lived all over the United
States prior
to joining the Army. My dad moved around a lot. And
when I was 17, I joined the Texas National Guard.
And when I was 18, I joined the regular Army and I
left. And except for a few visits,
I haven't been back since. OK, which takes care of
our next question. Any of your educational
background? I quit high school and joined the
Army. Two years later, I got a GED when I learned how
to spell it. And in 1970, the Army sent me to the
University of Southern California, and I are an
aerospace safety engineer. So I've got some
college background, and I have a course
completion in aerospace safety engineering,
which is accident investigation or anything
else. Pretty much self-taught and everything
else. And once I settled down and quit being a
wild-eyed hell-raiser, I started to educate
myself. I'd like to go through a brief sketch of
your military career before being known. That's
going to be hard to do because it wasn't brief. It
was eight years long, and it had 22 different
assignments in it. But I try to encapsulate it as
much as I can. I originally enlisted in the regular
army to be an MP. I started out in National Guard as a
Browning automatic rifleman in the armored calf
squadron. And I liked it, but I wanted to be an MP. I
had some things wrong with one of my ankles. They
were very strict in those days. I got busted out of
the MP school and went to medical training. It was
that or the infantry, and because of my ankle, they
wouldn't let me go to the infantry. I tried. I tried
to go airborne. They wouldn't let me go. So I became
a medic, and that's pretty much what I did for the
next eight years, that and trying to get out of the
medical court. I didn't even actually work as a
medic in a hospital on a ward until I'd been a medic
for almost seven years. I did a tour in the Aleutian
Islands where I didn't do my job, I did other jobs.
And when I came back from that, I went to Fort Knox,
Kentucky. assigned to a field hospital that was in
reorganization. They had been in Chile during the
1960 earthquakes down there, left all their
equipment, most of the people were due to get out.
When they came back, they got out and they
reorganized and rebuilt the unit. I helped
rebuild it. About six, eight months later, I
reenlisted for a reassignment in West
California. Spent nine months out there, was
assigned to Germany. Came up on the levee. Spent
three years in Munich, Germany, driving an
ambulance all over southern Bavaria. Real tough
job. Loved it every second of it. And I came back
from Germany. I went back to the San Francisco Bay
Area, and that's where, for the first time, I
worked in a hospital on a ward. It was one of the two
most rewarding experiences of my life. I worked
with terror and quadriplegics. Quite a few of them
at that time in 1965 were Vietnam veterans. We had
76 patients on the ward, 56 of them were Vietnam
veterans. And all of them were paralyzed to one
extent or
another. I was trying to go to Vietnam because it
seemed like the thing to do. That's where the
action was. I was a pro. And came up on levy for
Germany again. But in the meantime, I had applied
for helicopter flight school. and there was some
difficulty with the paperwork. I got levied for
Germany, had to reapply. I went back to Germany,
and while I was there, I made staff sergeants and
took over the battalion medical section. It was an
aviation battalion, as it were. And I picked up a
little bit of knowledge and information about
helicopters and flying and some of the people
there. And I hadn't been there quite a year when...
I was accepted to flight school. I accepted the
nomination to flight school and left
immediately. I hadn't been home for Christmas
since 1958. This was 1966. I made it home for
Christmas by the skin of my teeth. So that was the
first of a while. Nine months in flight school,
which five months of it was at Fort Walters, Texas,
best kept secret in the Army, and the remainder at
Fort Rucker, Alabama, And then I showed up in
Vietnam two days before Tet 68
started. What else do you want to know besides
that? That's very right. I've got a question for
you. Were you married during this time before you
went to Vietnam? Yes, I got married about two and a
half years after I joined the Army. Still got the
same wife. That's to her credit, not mine. She was a
good lady. So you said you went to Vietnam? By the
time I got to Vietnam, I'd been in the Army for
almost
10 years. Well, yeah, almost 10 years. Okay. My
question was the fact that the Army tried to carry
you, you know, like before Vietnam. Right. I made a
few little notes here and wanted to refer to them.
All my previous training and all my professional
thought, as it were, and the thought processes
that I developed were geared to fighting and
winning in combat. By this stage in my career, my
life, I'd pretty much settled down, and I was
trying to act like a professional soldier. Took
correspondence courses whenever I could. Any
training that came along, if I could get into it,
I'd get into it. Whatever I could to develop
myself. I was fairly single-minded in my thoughts
that I wanted to be the best that I could be. And
doing this from a narrow field like I was, it's kind
of hard to do. which is why I broke out and went in a
helicopter, one of the reasons why. So my whole
thought process was being a professional
soldier. The preparation for me wasn't specific
toward Vietnam. I don't think I ever saw any
specific indoctrination, training, education,
anything, on anything that was happening in South
Vietnam. I knew some things about Southeast Asia.
I had known for years about things. I was familiar
with Ho Chi Minh's original purposes there with
the Viet Minh running the French out in 1954, the
Battle of Dien Bien Phu, the tenacity of the people
to carry in on their backs the parts and pieces to
105 howitzers, two-bar artillery. That's a big
gun. And pack it in on their backs across mountains
and devastate the so-called fortress that Demian
put. The arrogance of the French to believe that it
couldn't be done cost them their colonization. So
I knew something about that. I knew a little bit
about Orientals, just from what I picked up here
and there. It was a mishmash of information, just
little bits and pieces here and there that added up
to a whole, which wasn't very much. I was no expert
by any means. But having spent a lot of my life On the
move, from one place to another, I learned how not
to be an ugly American. I'd read the book, knew what
it said, and tried not to do it. I wasn't your
typical GI in Germany. Close, but no cigar. So when
I got to Vietnam, I knew enough about it to begin to
learn from that point on. But it was all on my own.
The Army didn't
prepare me for it at all. Okay, I guess we'll go
through your first tour first. When you served it,
where,
how long? Okay. When I got there, just before Tet 68
started, literally hours, I didn't know where I
was going to be assigned. You went to the
replacement depot, and you took what they gave
you. They wanted bodies that could do this, that,
or the other, and they put them in the vacancies
that had been created by one reason or another. So I
was assigned to the 17th Aviation Group, which was
based in the train, and they further assigned me to
the 52nd Combat Assault Battalion, which was
based in Pleiku at the old French fort. Holloway
Army Airfield was the name of it. They further
assigned me to the 119th Assault Helicopter
Company, which is where I stayed for about the
first four months I was there. And then they came up
with a thing called the D-Row Shuffle. It was a new
unit in the battalion that was losing some of its
old people, and they had to be replaced from within
with other experienced people. By that time, I had
a little dab of experience, and they sent me to the
57th Assault Helicopter Company in Khantoum.
Khantoum was located about 40 miles north and a
little bit west of Pleiku, and it was right at the
foot of one of the branches of the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
It was an outlet. Besides our unit, There was one
engineer company there and a special forces camp
there. And that was the extent of the American
involvement in Khantoum. Shortly after I got
there, the engineers left. And the special forces
people were kind of aloof and standoffish to
everybody. They had the locals convinced they had
an underground armored division that was kept in
secret. And if anybody ever did anything to them,
they was going to turn them loose on the town and
destroy it and kill everybody in it. The fools
believed it, but they very seldom ever got in
trouble. We used to get mortared and rocketed
anywhere from three to five times a week, usually
at two o'clock in the morning. It was fairly well
predictable. So my duties there consisted of
flying the missions in the mountains in support of
elements of the 4th Infantry Division and that
Special Forces camp. We worked mainly small unit
tactics against regular north vietnamese units
when and where we could find them and it was usually
on the spur of the moment they would call a tactical
emergency and we would three or four ships would
meet someplace we would load up with troops get a
quick briefing and join the assault we usually
have a heavy gun team which consisted of three
gunships as opposed to a gun team which is two
gunships And we would go do what it was that we do,
which is put the troops on the place where they need
to be. Usually the side of a mountain or the top of
it, rarely ever an open field. If we could get an
area that was big enough to get three ships into,
that was rare indeed. It was usually single ship
landing zones or LZs. You went in one at a time by
yourself. We had to be extremely careful because
of these small landing zones. If we did anything
stupid and cracked up the aircraft, we just
plugged up the LZ, and then nobody could get in or
out. So it got pretty hairy, and it required
learning some skills that people said couldn't be
done. Well, in the process, we rewrote the book
about what you could do with helicopters in the
mountains. We had good machines. We had good men.
Primarily, though, it was small unit tactics
against regular elements of the North Vietnamese
Army. and specifically the 408th North
Vietnamese Sapper Battalion, or regiment, which
was located in and around the countryside all
around us. We were completely
surrounded by it. Did that for the remainder of my
tour, working there in Special Forces operations
across the fence in Laos and Cambodia. When LBJ
said we weren't doing it, and we carried those
people over there so they could do what it was that
they do, which was spy, assassinate, and kidnap.
We also resupplied their mountaintop radio relay
stations and listening posts, kept those people
out of trouble, fed, clothed, and rotated for R&R
when they needed to, things like that. It had its
moments of excitement. Most of the time it was
fairly routine stuff, ash and trash, pigs and
goats, chickens and oats, and just hauling stuff
around and putting it off here and picking it up
there. Fairly well mundane, really. The actual
flying conditions were more treacherous than the
combat conditions, except when the combat
conditions really erupted. At that stage of the
game, we had established our air superiority. And
the bad guys had developed a fairly good respect
for the fact that if they shot at one of our
aircraft, we were going to hurt them. And we were
going to spend millions of dollars doing it. We had
the assets, we had the time, we had the place, and we
had the motive. And they knew we would do it. And we
did. So they didn't take idle shots at us. And
usually when we did get shot at, it was... We were
enjoying in some kind of a battle of some sort.
That was pretty much what we did for the whole time
there. It was like the old Siemens chant of hours
and hours of boredom interspersed with moments of
stark terror. And sometimes it got pretty scary.
This was from January 68 to January 69? Right.
Which time you came on home? I came home there.
Okay.
How did you feel about the war at this point? At that
particular stage of the game? I mean, you'd been a
veteran of the year and seen quite a bit, I'm sure.
Well, I made a few notes on that to try to keep it down
to a dull roar
here. A guy once told me that And I'll never forget
it. This is a dirty little war, but it's the only one
we got. Well, a lot of us lifers looked at it that
way. It was kind of a game more than anything else
because it really didn't have drawn battle lines
and, you know, General Rommel over there and
whatever over there and pitched battles, tanks
against tanks and so on. It wasn't that way. Most of
the time it was just individuals against
individuals. he was right it wasn't during the war
but it was the only thing we had but we sort of
accepted the fact that us lifers that people get
killed in wars and some of them might even be
friends so that didn't really have that much
bearing on how i felt i don't really think that i had
a broad enough vision in those days to see what was
going on around me I know that there was a lot of
frustration going on within myself. I saw a lot of
things done for nothing, it would seem. Many times
I saw us pay for the same real estate two and three
times. I saw friends get killed doing this. It gets
fairly ludicrous and it takes its toll on you no
matter how motivated you are. It's fairly clear to
me now. I really was on the horns of a dilemma and
didn't recognize what it was all about. I was just
so single-minded in my thinking. A strong part of
my thinking was accomplish the mission, gung-ho,
charge on. And another part of me, equally as
strong, was saying, this is a crock. It's for
nothing. We're really blowing. And each one of
these conclusions was fighting for possession of
them. And no matter which one of them won, I was
going to be the ultimate loser. Well, I didn't
realize that stuff in those days. One of the things
I've come to learn since then is that confusion is
the mother of fear, and fear is the controller of
attitudes, and mine went in the toilet. Not that I
didn't want to do it anymore or didn't care
anything about doing it anymore. If that was true,
I'd have quit. It went the other way. I developed an
arrogance about me to hide my fear, which I was
afraid of itself. I wasn't afraid to get killed or
anything like that. I was afraid of being afraid.
And I developed an arrogance that really got bad.
And the worse it got, the worse it got. It became
synergistic. It just fed on itself.
By the time I got back for my second tour,
I thought I had it figured out. If I could just go
back and do my job better this time, we'd win. And I
didn't know I was putting the blame on me. I had no
idea, none whatsoever.
But for the time being, it was what had to be done. I
was a soldier, professional. This was my chosen
way of life, and I was going to do it. Like the man
said, it was a dirty, nasty little war, which only
we
had. Okay. You said you went back for a second tour.
Let me change this a bit. Was the decision to return
to Vietnam yours? No, not at all. It was a given. If
you were a lifer, especially a helicopter pilot,
the second tour was an automatic. Some people even
got a third tour. depending on how early they
started, and I kind of hit it just at the right time.
And that's, you know, it's not to say that I did or
did not volunteer for it. It was just something
that was going to happen. I spent my year and a half
or so at home as a flight instructor out in Texas
waiting for it to happen. And that, too, was a bad
thing because I never did relax because I knew I was
going back. And I knew that I could not afford to
slack off in my thinking, my awareness of what was
going on around me. I developed a sense of
awareness from those days that, looking back on it
now, boggles my mind. I became, through this fear
thing, absolutely aware of absolutely
everything going on around me and had the ability
to take in a fact, analyze it, and discard it if it
wasn't going to kill me. And that's exactly the way
I look at everything. If it wasn't going to kill me,
it didn't matter. Ain't about nothing. This is a
famous expression from Vietnam. Don't mean
a thing. I never relaxed. I was still in Vietnam
even though I was at home. Because I knew when I went
back, I could not afford to have to develop these
senses all over again. Because I would be expected
to pick up right where I left off. And I didn't have
the sense enough to learn how to relax So it wasn't
really a matter of me volunteering or they sending
me. It was just that was the next step. I don't think
I would have chosen either way. I just sat and
waited. And when the orders came, I packed up and
went. And I left two baby daughters behind me.
They're grown
now. Okay. I was wondering if you could briefly
describe your duties on the second tour. Medevac.
I got assigned to the original dust-off
detachment,
57th Med Detachment of Ambulance Helicopter.
Yeah, that's how it goes. And they were the
original dust-off unit that was started back in, I
think, 1966. Dust-off is an acronym, but for the
life of me, I can't remember what it means anymore.
Maybe it's Somebody you talk to one day is going to
remember that they've got a big convention coming
up next weekend down in San Antonio. But I'm not
going. Primarily in 1971, we were involved in the
medical evacuation of Arvids. There were very few
U.S. left in the Delta where I was assigned near
Canto. Elements of the 9th Infantry Division,
some Navy, few aircraft outfits, one cab
squadron, air cab squadron, and they pretty much
took care of their own folks. But I was based there
at Ben Tuohy at the Third Surge Hospital. It was a
MASH hospital. I lived there, and the base was
across the street at the Navy Airfield. And that
was primarily what we did, was picked up the little
people and brought them in. Most of the missions
were at night. Very few of them in the daytime. And
we covered an area of 12,000 square miles.
I learned some very hard lessons from some of those
night evacuations about people, especially the
originals. I knew some things about them, but I had
no idea until I did that tour. But mainly it was just
picking up the wounded, taking them to a hospital
sometimes.
Okay.
You were saying that you learned some very hard
lessons. Would you like to relate any experiences
that you feel, I'm sure the war as a whole did make a
lasting impression on your life, that something
that you feel just stood out? Oh, several things
that
stood out. I don't tell war stories. I just don't do
it. But this one, I'm going to relate one incident.
It was deep night. We were called way out somewhere
to pick up this one Arvin that had been severely
wounded. He'd been shot by one of his fellows is
what had happened. And he was fragged. Yeah, threw
a hand grenade at him. Something about a
girlfriend and requited love and all that stuff.
But anyhow, we went out and picked the guy up. And
the medic we had on board was a kid named Randy Hill.
And he was from Tyler, Texas. And he was 19 years old
and did amazing feats of saving people's lives.
His ability and his skill and knowledge was just
beyond my comprehension. I don't know how he did
it, but he did. Well, he kept the guy alive, had IVs,
intravenous injections, plugged into him just
about everywhere he could. Our control told us to
take this chap to the pad at Mito. Well, this
particular pad is a very nasty one. And Mito is a
very nasty little village. And it has some bad guys
in it. And we don't like to go there at night, but we
had to go. We called them way out, 20 minutes out,
that we were coming in. And we talked to the
American advisor there, and he assured us that an
ambulance would be standing by there at the pad
next to the canal when we got in there. And they
would quick time get him off the ship so we could get
out of there before somebody had a chance to draw a
beat on us. And about 10 minutes out, we called them
back, confirmed that, yeah, they were trying to
get that ambulance rounded up now. And five
minutes out, we called in, and they said, yeah, the
ambulance is on its way to the pad. And two minutes
out, we called them and told them we were landing.
And when we got to the pad, no one was there. We're
sitting there, a great big 9,500-pound
helicopter making a tremendous amount of noise
with lights on. We turned the lights off. Nothing
really did any good. All you had to do was aim at the
noise. And we called them and said, where's the
ambulance? They said, it's on its way. This guy's
laying in the back, bleeding to death. Randy's
keeping him alive. We call again a minute later and
told them we've got to leave. We'd already been
sitting on the ground for over 60 seconds. That's
sticking it so far out in the street, it's
pathetic. We just didn't do that. They implored us
to stay a little bit longer, so we waited another
minute. And we had outlived our existence by then.
So they told us to set the guy off. The ambulance
would be there any second and get on out of there. So
we did. We came back about three hours later, still
in the middle of the night, with another one. And
the same guy was still laying there, dead or alive.
They never picked him up. The Americans couldn't.
The Vietnamese wouldn't.
I knew for years that Orientals viewed life and
death a lot differently than Occidentals did. And
I learned a thing or two about that. It puts things
into perspective. But I never conceived that it
was like that, that they would let their fellow lay
there and bleed to death because they were too
scared of driving in and standing and picking up.
I've never forgotten anything.
There's not much I wouldn't do at this stage of the
game, or at least I like to think so, that if someone
needed something, needed help, I don't know where
I would place limits on trying to do it. I don't
think I would. Anything within my power to do, I
would do. Regardless of risk. Regardless of cost.
I've done it a few times. Some of them are pretty
stupid things to do, but I've done it. So I don't
have any doubt about that, whether or not I would.
It's just when. The single question in my mind is
when's the next time? That made a lasting
impression on me. They wanted everything from us,
but they weren't willing to give anything, even
from themselves. That,
I've never gotten rid of. Next question. I kind of
missed a question here. Your second tour, you were
there from... Oh, from, let's see here. April 1971
to March 1972. I left a month earlier. On the
stretcher. Almost made it. Two years without
a scratch, all of it. What kind of wound did you... I
broke my kneecap.
Oh, nothing spectacular or heroic. I got drunk and
fell down the stairs.
Okay, um... One of my other questions was what kind
of reception you received when you did come home on
either tour, if they were any different, because
they were very different stages of the war. Very
good question, too, and easy to answer. When I came
back from the first tour, I got a really little
incident that happened before I came back from the
first tour. I came back before I was supposed to
come back. In August 1967, I went on R&R to Hawaii, I
was originally scheduled to go to Hong Kong, and at
the very last minute, I mean literally within
hours of it, I changed and went to Hawaii because it
was my oldest daughter's birthday. She had
written a letter and said, I wish my daddy could
come home for his birthday. How can you turn that
down? So I got a guy to swap with me, and I went to
Hawaii, and they told us, don't go back to Kaunas,
the United States. No, you've been bad. You stink.
Stay out of there. They don't want you there. Can't
leave Hawaii. And we all said bye, and then we all
took off to the airport. Well, I had to lay over in
LAX, or Los Angeles International Airport, about
2 o'clock in the morning. And I was in uniform with
my wings and a few little ribbons that I possessed
at that time. The six-pack they give you for
showing up were three-packs. And I was standing at
a kind of a stand-up hot dog stand. A couple of
maintenance guys were there, and this old
gentleman that ran it was there. And we were just
shooting the breeze, and it wasn't even about the
war. And they were very polite not to say anything
to me. And we could hear this group and smell this
group coming before we ever saw them. There was
about four or five of the scraggliest-looking
hippies you ever saw in your life. And they saw me,
and they saw those silver wings, which to them
equated to napalm and baby killing.
And they immediately zeroed in on me. And they was
all kinds of things, which I'm not going to repeat.
And accusing me of every vile crime in the world.
And these guys that were with me there, just
standing there shooting the breeze, wanted to run
them off. And I said, no, wait a minute, I'm going to
show you something. I was having a good time. And I
stood there and I took it, nodded my head, okay,
okay, anything else? And finally they just flat
ran out of steam. They were yelling and hollering.
It's a wonder the police didn't show up, all the
noise they were making. And I just stood there and
took it. And I said, you know, folks, everything
you said is absolutely true. Furthermore, did you
know, and I started making up some of the
god-awfulest macabre stories that the mind can
conceive, and one of them became physically ill,
and some of the descriptions that I was giving of
what we did, which we never did, Two others just
turned around and ran because they thought I was
fixing to go berserk. I get pretty wild-eyed
sometimes, and I have green eyes, and they
sparkle. They light up, literally. They look
really weird, I've been told. And I really had a
blast at it. They all kind of was backing away. They
didn't know whether I was going to pounce on them or
what, and I was just trying to tell them. I said,
wait, come back. There's more. There's more. You
know, trying to really be their friend and all this
stuff. These guys just cracked up over it. That was
the only incident I ever ran into at that stage in
the game, and I had a ball with it. Absolute blast.
When I got home in January of 69, I have two rather
wealthy uncles. Well, one now. They live in
Dallas, and they wanted to take me out of the town in
uniform. That was the proviso. So my wife and I, we
got gussied up a little bit, and off we went. And
they took us to a real fancy joint where we stood in
line for two hours to eat. Well, I had gotten used to
consuming copious amounts of scotch in those
days, and these guys didn't know how to do that. By
the time we got to eat, they were fairly well gone,
and I was just getting started.
There was no one said anything against me. No one
said anything to me either in the place. I don't
believe, I don't recall, but I know that it wasn't
anything negative as such. I noticed people
looking at me, and they would look away when I
caught their eye, but no one ever said or did
anything. The whole time that I was home, 1969 to
71,
I was insulated and isolated from the rest of the
world. I was in Mineral Wells, Texas, in Fort
Walters, a place that was very pro-army,
pro-aviation, We didn't have any hassles around
there. The locals wouldn't stand for it. And the
rest of the world didn't know we was there. It
wasn't one of your big bases like Fort Benning or
Fort Knox where people knew where it was. This was a
little bitty place out on the edge of West Texas and
no one knew it existed. It was a great place. Still
is. It's, for always, will be my home.
So I didn't get around all this stuff. I watched the
news and saw all the things that were going on, but I
never got exposed to it personally. When I went
back to Vietnam in 1971, I knew about things
happening, but I didn't know about them. I wasn't
educated about them. I didn't want to be educated
about them. If I had my job, I was going to do it. This
was my job. This is what I did. And when I came back in
72, That was different. Enormously so. I was
medevaced back with a busted knee and spent some
time in the hospital. Spent some time on
convalescent leave and was reassigned to Fort
Hood, Texas. Well, I decided to try to get away from
the military for a while, at least see how the other
half lived. That was a mistake on my part. I bought a
house in Waco, 70 miles away. Commuted every day,
140 miles a day. And my neighbors put me through the
mill. I had one neighbor that would actually talk
to me. Nice old chap. He didn't much care for the
rest of them. And he was the only one. The rest of
them, some of them wouldn't even let their kids
play with mine when they found out who I was. I left
so early in the morning they never saw me, but when I
came home in the evening, they did. And there was no
mistake in that flight suit. Plus, it had the
forehead stickers all over the car. It was
required. And it didn't take long for the word to
get around the neighborhood. This guy's a Vietnam
vet. Those people would see me coming, would turn
around and go back in their house. That hurt. It
really did. I got to where I did not tell people what
I did for a living.
And as soon as I did, instant turn off. When I got out
in 1973, for about a year, I did other things and
then I went back to flying. I was in Fort Rucker,
Alabama as a civilian flight instructor for the
Army. And even around there, when you get away from
the military complex itself, I didn't tell people
what I did for a living. In 1977, I went to work for an
offshore flying service in the Gulf of Mexico. And
I bought a house up north of Dallas. And I had
learned by that stage of the game not to tell people
that I flew helicopters for a living. And for a year
and a half, none of my neighbors knew what I did.
They only knew that I was home a week and gone a week.
And one day, a chap that lived on one side of me, who I
had shared many a beer over the fence with,
chit-chatted about his Capri and my old Chevrolet
truck and talked this, that, and the other. We're
fairly good acquaintances. We weren't hard and
fast friends, but we were comfortable with each
other. One day his curiosity got the best of him.
And he asked me, he said, say, what do you do? I said,
what do you mean? He said, well, you're here a week,
you're gone a week. You travel and sail, you don't
look like one. I thought about it for a second. I
said, why not? Let's try it. And I told him what I
did, that I flew helicopters offshore in the Gulf
of Mexico in support of the offshore drilling
industry. And he looked at me and he said, one
question.
Were you a pilot in Vietnam? I said, yes. The man
never spoke to me again. He was a young fellow,
younger than I was. I'd come out in the backyard,
he'd go in the house. And I endured that for 16
years. Never quieted. The guy on the other side of
the house from me was a retired Navy. One day he
asked me what I did for a living. And I just told him
right straight out, and I said, and if you don't
like it, pal, you can go to hell. He said, I think
it's great. I was there, too. The only one in the
whole neighborhood, the two that knew what I did.
And pretty soon, it got all over the neighborhood
that I was a Vietnam veteran helicopter pilot, a
baby killer that dropped napalm on me. Never
killed anybody. Never killed anybody that I know
of. It certainly didn't drop any napalm. So there
was a marked difference between the two
homecomings, as it were. And it steadily
progressed from 1973 until 1984. Things changed.
Things happened.
But it did get worse and worse and worse as it went
along. I read an article one time that a guy said
that We're taking our guilt out on the Vietnam
veterans for what we allowed to go on unchecked.
And I think that made more sense than anything
else. The enormity of it is too much to avenge. So I
forgive
them. It's easier. Does that answer your
question? Very well. Good. Going back to you, you
said you did work with the Arvin on your second
tour. I've got a few questions, you know, relating
to the people and the culture of South Vietnam. I
was wondering if you could, you know, briefly
relate your view of the people, you know, how you
felt, well, you have, but just to sum it up, your
view of when you first got there, how it changed,
you know, during, after the war, today, you know.
When I got there, they didn't change. I did.
They're stoic. They've been that way for
thousands of years. Vietnam has always been
unsettled. My youngest daughter gave me a book on
Vietnam. It's in the other room. I think she bought
it by the weight rather than the content. It's
about three inches thick, and it's the complete
history of Vietnam for 4,000 years that was
recorded. And they had a recorded history 4,000
years long. And it's been constant turmoil. Well,
when I got there, the people are simple people.
Very simple. They're peasants. They want a little
piece of dirt. They want to grow their food and live
their life and raise their kids so that they can
grow their food and live their life and raise their
kids. Very simple. They're not all that
ambitious. The colonization by the French and the
European influence on many of the families and
dynasties in Vietnam or what creates most of the
turmoil. The educated ones, they become
ambitious. There's nothing wrong with ambition.
Like what Mark Anthony said about it. It's noble.
Nobody's going to let it go to your head. But the
simple people are just that. They're simple
people. At the time, Again, I have to emphasize, my
vision was narrow. I was a wiper GI all the way. I
didn't care about nothing but Army. Didn't know
anything but Army. Didn't want to know anything
but Army. Soldier. That was me. All the way
through. With what I did. And I tried to do it well.
But I saw these people just like any other people.
Except they didn't care what happened. Because of
the oriental mindset, what's going to happen is
going to happen. There's nothing you're going to
do about it. In some factions, they call it karma. I
don't know what they call it in others, but that's a
pretty good handle on it. It's going to happen.
It's going to happen. We have very little
influence over our destiny, is what they believe.
And they accepted things like that. Yeah, they
would mourn the dead and then go back to work. We do
the same thing. We did exactly the same thing. We
buried my grandmother in 1976 or whenever it was.
We mourned that morning and partied that
afternoon. The uncle that was crying the most was
partying the hardest. So we're no different in
that respect. But the one thing I saw was that
disturbed me and turned me against them was that
And I believe we were there righteously. That's
where I went wrong. But we were trying to provide a
service for them, and they didn't care whether
they got it or not. And I think that's where the Viet
Minh and the VC had it over. They found people who
had been put down by the colonialism and by the
ambitious rich that were taking over the running
of the country. literally raping it of its
profits.
These people have been hurt by it. The V.C. told
them the truth, that they lived under a corrupt
government, which was true. There's no doubt
about it. We know that now. And a lot of people who
knew it then tried to tell us, but we wouldn't
listen. They showed them the truth and convinced
them that they were a better answer. And all we did
was go in with bigger and noisier things We didn't
appeal to their spirit at all. And they could see
through our greed like a clear glass. It was easy to
see.
I didn't know that then. All I could see at that time
was these people didn't care whether I died
fighting for them or not. And I don't like that. I
like to be appreciated a little bit. That's the
fallacy of the European people. So I began to hate
them. The Arvin was a lousy excuse for an army that
there ever
was. The harder it got, the worse he got. Some units
and some individuals were great. There were two
people that I knew that were fantastic, Colonel
Lynn in canton and Captain Coy on my second tour. He
was a patriot. He loved his country. I don't know
whether he got out or not. I like to think he stole a
helicopter, loaded his family up, and flew that
thing out to an aircraft carrier and dumped it in
the sea with the rest of them. But I don't know.
Colonel Lynn was a fine man. He was a good leader,
and he was a patriot. I don't know what happened to
him. His own people killed him. That was after I
left, thank God, because I would have gone berserk
over that. I really liked it. I've only said that
about three colonels in my entire life. The other
two were both Americans. But as groups, they're
lousy. As individuals, some of them are pretty
good. The elite units, the Rangers, were fairly
good, but they let that go to their heads and became
more like Gestapo than anything else. They say, I
am the toughest, the meanest, and you give me all
your chickens and your prettiest daughter, and
I'm going to take them. And they would. So they were
no better than the bad guys. It was hard to tell who
the good guy was and who the bad guy was. I got fired
on many, many times from Arvin units that were full
of VC or NBA sympathizers.
Want something to drink?